- Microservice code can be stored in a **polyrepo** or **monorepo**
- A monorepo is 1 git repository for multiple projects.  Each project gets its own folder (eg. shopping cart, payments, notifications etc.)
- A polyrepo means multiple repos.  So we create a separate repository for each service (microservice)


**Monorepo**
- Having a monorepo makes code management easier asince you can clone and work with 1 repository, so it simplifies things: 
	- Changes can be tracked, tested and released together
	- If you have some shared code/configs like Docker compose, helm or k8s manifests, youc an put them in the root of the projects and all the services can reuse them 

**Monorepo challenges**
- A key microservice criterion is for microservices to be completely isoalted and independent, however a monorepo can lead to tight coupling between services inside the code. 
	- **It's easier to make mistakes and break this criterions in monorepos: eg. a junior dev**
- When the application becomes really big cloning, fetching and pulling becomes slow as your project is huge 
- Additional logic needs to be added to your pipeline to make sure only the service that has changes is built and deployed 
- Since you have 1 main branch, if developers of 1 service break the pipeline, other services will be blocked as well 

**PolyRepo (multiple repositories)*
- For each service we create 1 repository. 
	- Code for each service is completely isolated
	- Clone and work on each service separately 
- Since all the code in the repos are part of the same application, you want top have some sort of link between them 
	- (eg. in Gitlab you can have projects to configure connected projects together)
	- Within groups you can create secrets/shared variables
- Each service gets its own CI/CD pipeline since each service is in a separate repository.


**Polyrepo downsides**
- Having application code in multiple repos can make working on the project a lot harder, especially if you need to change 2 or more services at one
- Switching between projects is tedious 
- Sharing resources like k8s manifests is more difficult 

**So Which One?**
- If you have a small project with just a few microservices, stick to monorepo and save the overhead of creating, managing and checking out multiple repos 
- If you have separate teams for each service, want complete isolation or a smaller codebase to clone, then POLYREPO!